# Motivation, inclusion, and accessibility

The (young) participants take part in the project voluntarily and devote their free time to act as co-researchers. It is therefore important to ensure they perceive the project as enriching, to show appreciation for their time, and to create an atmosphere in which they feel comfortable to contribute. Project teams should make sure they create an environment in which youth participants feel just as free as the adults to speak up and to participate fully. When bringing together young people and city leaders, it is also essential to acknowledge and address differences in knowledge, experience, and power.

'Co-Creating Our City' projects focus explicitly on the participation of underrepresented groups. This means that facilitators must think about and make an effort to welcome and include participants from diverse backgrounds and that teams have to be especially conscious of avoiding potential biases or discrimination (conscious or unconscious).  

Consider the following to create an inclusive, accessible, and non-discriminatory space for your project:

**Safe space:** The collaboration and all interactions within the project―meetings, workshops, discussions in person or online spaces―should explicitly be established as a safe space. Workshop facilitators should establish and reiterate a framework for discussing concerns and needs as well as rules tailored to these at an initial kick-off meeting with young and adult participants as well as at the beginning of every workshop. The framework and rules should be established jointly with the group. It is important that all participants commit to treating each other with respect. Regular check-ins and reflections contribute to awareness of diversity and a positive atmosphere for everyone.

**Skills and experience:** The workshop formats and content should be tailored to the skills and strengths of the participants and be adapted to serve different needs and interests. Consider keeping workshop plans flexible, for example, by including buffer time to allow for spontaneous questions or discussions, and offering reasonable adjustments to agendas, tasks, or the physical environment that allow co-researchers with specific needs to participate in all activities.

**Accessibility and inclusivity:** Creating accessible and inclusive spaces means removing barriers (e.g., by the presence of ramps, elevators, and tactile guidance systems) and being open to different forms of communication (e.g., sign language, simplified language). The venue must be in reach for all participants. Participants should not incur any additional costs. Accordingly, the project budget must include funds for travel and meals during the workshops. When planning meals, dietary requirements and allergies must be taken into account. Participants could be given the opportunity to vote on a selection of dishes in advance.

You can use an introductory discussion with participants, or alternatively your sign-up form, to identify their specific needs and support requirements. If necessary, consider if you can run workshops to support and provide services and materials in different languages.
